# Traffic Sign Recognition with Convolutional Neural Network for Driving Skill Evaluation Application

The problem of recognizing the signs in road image is important in the field of autonomous vehicle. However, most of the research and implementation of traffic sign recognition problem were based on computation device with high performance, such as workstation-level GPU. In this project, the possibility of using mobile device, and with the cooperation of cloud-based compute service to recognize multiple pattern in road image is shown. On the other hand, most of the implementation and research regarding to traffic sign recognition were using GTSRB as the training dataset. However, the LISA dataset was a better fit to the proposed scenario, while the dataset was consisted of road image taken in South California. Thus, in the implementation, we would train and test both kind of the datasets, to see the difference between them and how our model was robust toward them.  
In the implementation, firstly we built an application on iOS mobile device (iPhone6s, iOS 11.2) and use it as the platform of the driving-skill evaluation and display. The user would be asked to put the phone behind the windscreen, and the application would automatically capture picture of front view to recognize different kinds of patterns on the road. The mobile device is able to connect with the server via PHP protocol. The upload would trigger the python script to make the inference with the image, and pass back the result. Meanwhile, the application could also make inference with lower accuracy via the compressed coreML model converted from the pre-trained Keras h5 model.  
In this project, the recognized pattern has been limited to traffic signs and traffic lights. In order to recognize patterns on the road, we first implement a mimic of VGGNet model, and found out the training time and running time would exceed one second which would not fit my proposed scenario. Therefore, we constructed a 6-layer CNN model, which consisted of 6 convolutional layers, 3 max pooling layers and 3 dropout layers and a fully connected layer with softmax layer. We tested our model after training them by using GTSRB and LISA dataset. From the evaluation, we found out that the testing accuracy of the 6-layer CNN model for GTSRB dataset was 96.4\%, LISA traffic sign dataset is 99.8\% and the LISA traffic light is 99.5\%. The processing time per image was 20 ms on the cloud and 70 ms on the mobile device in average.  
